_pages/about.md, before:

---
layout: about
title: about
permalink: /
subtitle: Ph.D. candidate in Information Science at Cornell Tech University

profile:
  align: right
  image: HaukePortrait.jpeg
  image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
  more_info: >
    <p>Cornell Tech</p>
    <p>2w Loop Rd</p>
    <p>New York, NY 10044</p>

news: true # includes a list of news items
selected_papers: true # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
social: true # includes social icons at the bottom of the page
---

Advised by the ascending [Qian Yang](https://qianyang.co/), and legendary [Wendy Ju](https://tech.cornell.edu/people/wendy-ju/).
Background in Human Computer Interaction (M.Sc.) & Creative Technology (B.Sc.). Worked as a UX technologist in the VW Group Future Center to improve mobility for all.

**Research Statement**: How do interaction design methodologies need to evolve to meet the ethical challenges of data-intensive systems?
Through two complementary threads, I investigate: (1) ethical data-driven interaction design, where I develop frameworks to evaluate user experiences and study how designers can responsibly leverage AI in their process; and (2) ethical data-sharing, where I create policies and tools that balance innovation needs with data protection across domains from autonomous vehicles, urban street imagery to healthcare.

Pre Ph.D. work can be seen at my [portfolio website](https://haukesandhaus.de/).

Commit message:

Update committee, fix Safari image loading, and format with prettier

_pages/about.md, after:

---
layout: about
title: about
permalink: /
subtitle: Ph.D. candidate in Information Science at Cornell Tech University

profile:
  align: right
  image: HaukePortrait.jpeg
  image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
  more_info: >
    <p>Cornell Tech</p>
    <p>2w Loop Rd</p>
    <p>New York, NY 10044</p>

news: true # includes a list of news items
selected_papers: true # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
social: true # includes social icons at the bottom of the page
---

Advised by Helen Nissenbaum (Chair), the legendary [Wendy Ju](https://tech.cornell.edu/people/wendy-ju/) (Co-Chair), and the ascending [Qian Yang](https://qianyang.co/) (Committee Member).
Background in Human Computer Interaction (M.Sc.) & Creative Technology (B.Sc.). Worked as a UX technologist in the VW Group Future Center to improve mobility for all.

**Research Statement**: How do interaction design methodologies need to evolve to meet the ethical challenges of data-intensive systems?
Through two complementary threads, I investigate: (1) ethical data-driven interaction design, where I develop frameworks to evaluate user experiences and study how designers can responsibly leverage AI in their process; and (2) ethical data-sharing, where I create policies and tools that balance innovation needs with data protection across domains from autonomous vehicles, urban street imagery to healthcare.

Pre Ph.D. work can be seen at my [portfolio website](https://haukesandhaus.de/).
