_pages/teaching.md, before:

---
layout: page
permalink: /teaching/
title: teaching & talks
description: Courses taught and academic presentations.
nav: true
nav_order: 6
---

## Teaching Experience

### Cornell Tech

- **PiTech Program: [Conscientious Tech Design Workshop](http://pitechethics.github.io)** (Summer 2025)  
   _Co-Instructor, supervised by [Prof. Helen Nissenbaum](https://tech.cornell.edu/people/helen-nissenbaum/)_  
  Co-designed and co-facilitated an 8-week ethics workshop for [Siegel PiTech](https://www.pi.tech.cornell.edu/pitech-phd-impact-fellowship) PhD Impact Fellows using the Values at Play framework. The workshop provides a participatory space to explore ethical dimensions of public interest technology through discovery, implementation, and verification techniques applied to fellows' own projects. I operationalized the Values at Play framework into collaborative whiteboard activities and interactive assignments.

  _This workshop addresses the question: What does it mean to build and evaluate technology in the public interest? Sessions focus on identifying values embedded in systems, translating values into design features, and evaluating whether implementations successfully embody intended values._

- **CS 5436 / INFO 5303: [Privacy in the Digital Age](https://cs5436.github.io/)** (Fall 2024)  
   _Teaching Assistant for [Prof. Helen Nissenbaum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Helen_Nissenbaum) and [Prof. Vitaly Shmatikov](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/~shmat/)_  
  Graded assignments, created an in-class participatory assignment on privacy policy evaluation, and taught a lecture on usable privacy and design manipulation.

  _This course introduces students to privacy technologies and surveys the current state of digital privacy from multiple perspectives, including technology, law, policy, ethics, economics, and surveillance._

- **INFO 5345 / CS 5424 / ECE 5413: Developing and Designing Interactive Devices** (Fall 2023, Fall 2025)  
  _Teaching Assistant for [Prof. Wendy Ju](https://tech.cornell.edu/people/wendy-ju/)_  
  Revised all lab scripts and class content in the [interactive lab repository](https://github.com/FAR-Lab/Interactive-Lab-Hub) for updated hardware and more advanced libraries, enhancing usability. Established class infrastructure and managed grading. In Fall 2025, building on insights from my research on GenAI in HCI education (Sandhaus et al., 2025), I developed [WendyTA](https://github.com/IRL-CT/Interactive-Lab-Hub/tree/Fall2025/WendyTA), an LLM-powered teaching assistant that supports students in their interactive device design projects while encouraging reflection and deep learning.

  _This course provides an introduction to the human-centered and technical workings behind interactive devices ranging from cell phones and video controllers to household appliances and smart cars. This is a hands-on, lab-based course. Topics include electronics prototyping, interface prototyping, sensors and actuators, microcontroller development, physical prototyping and user testing. For the final project, students will build a functional interactive device of their own design, using single-board Linux computers, embedded microcontrollers, and other electronics components._

### Cornell University

- **INFO 3450 / COMM 3450 / INFO 5355: User Experience & User Research** (Fall 2021)  
  _Teaching Assistant for [Prof. Gilly Leshed](https://leshed.infosci.cornell.edu/)_  
  Led in class activities. Oversaw grading activities.

  _This course focuses on user experience design (UX) and the life cycle of interface design from the user perspective. We will discuss key aspects of the human-centered design process: understanding, analyzing, and formalizing user needs, exploring possible design solutions to address user needs, creating prototypes to externalize design ideas, and evaluating the usability of these prototypes._

<!-- - **[Course Name]** (Term Year)
  *Role*
  Brief description of responsibilities and impact. -->

## Invited Talks

<!-- ## Selected Talks --  & Presentations -->

<!-- ### Conference Presentations

- **[Talk Title]** (Month Year)
  _Conference Name, Location_
  Brief description or key points. -->

<!-- ### Invited Talks -->

- **Bright Patterns: Towards Extra Ethical User Experience Design** (March 2024)  
   _Digital Life Initiative, Cornell Tech, USA_ · [📑 Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1HNU8c5veMYzNhvuhTO9g0KvuFStQ4ddr5ja7xKzAUBY/edit?usp=sharing)  
  Dark Patterns have received significant attention from the academic Human-Computer Interaction community since 2010, when Brignull launched darkpatterns.org and initially described them as "tricks used in websites and apps that make you do things that you didn't mean to." In this presentation, DLI Doctoral Fellow Hauke Sandhaus will introduce two ongoing projects: firstly, his definition of Bright Patterns as an antonym to Dark Patterns, and secondly, an empirical study examining how the evaluation standards of user experience designers do not necessarily guide them towards ethical design practices. [Read more >](https://www.dli.tech.cornell.edu/seminars/%22bright-patterns%3A-towards-extra-ethical-user-experience-design%22-%26-%22explorable-explainable-ai%3A-improving-ai-understanding-for-community-health-workers-in-india%22)

- **Conceptualizing Bright Patterns** (January 2024)  
   _Lorentz Workshop on Fair Patterns, Leiden University, Netherlands_ · [📑 Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1_RUTMhAYq6cJlihzO3ZZUnPn76EKJkpYOBbG0FRyWE0/edit?usp=sharing)  
  This workshop brings together legal, human-computer interaction and economic experts coming from academia, businesses and enforcement agencies. Dark patterns, or deceptive design, are present on an overwhelming majority of digital services: they do not only clutter the interfaces of websites and mobile applications, but they are also widespread in emerging technologies such as voice assistants that provide personalized recommendations. [Read more >](https://www.lorentzcenter.nl/fair-patterns-for-online-interfaces.html)

- **Towards Prototyping Driverless Vehicle Behaviors, City Design, and Policies Simultaneously** (October 2023)  
   _Smart Cities as Knowledge Commons, Villanova University Charles Widger School of Law, USA_ · [📑 Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1zOP5aSnHkJUmGMANGceYTDUmbuR60iRG/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=115041818286926436811&rtpof=true&sd=true)  
   This Governing Knowledge Commons (GKC) workshop, to be followed by a book collecting case studies focused on Smart Cities and knowledge commons, offers a strategic opportunity to advance knowledge on how cities should respond to the challenges presented by digital networked technologies. Emerging smart cities will require trusted governance and engaged citizens. Integrating surveillance, AI, automation and smart tech within basic infrastructure as well as public and private services and spaces raises a complex set of ethical, economic, political, social, and technological questions [Read more >](https://knowledge-commons.net/projects/smart-cities/)

<!-- ### Workshop Presentations

- **[Workshop Title]** (Month Year)
  _Event Name, Location_
  Brief description of the workshop and your role. -->

Commit message:

Update TA experience with INFO 5305 Spring 2026

_pages/teaching.md, after:

---
layout: page
permalink: /teaching/
title: teaching & talks
description: Courses taught and academic presentations.
nav: true
nav_order: 6
---

## Teaching Experience

### Cornell Tech

- **INFO 5305: UX & User Research** (Spring 2026)  
   _Teaching Assistant for [Prof. Shiri Azenkot](https://tech.cornell.edu/people/shiri-azenkot/)_  
  Assisted in teaching a master's level course focused on the UX lifecycle and user research methods.

  _In this course, students focus on the UX lifecycle and user research methods. Following an iterative process with four major phases—analyze, design, prototype, and evaluate—students learn practical skills to take a product idea from a simple concept to a detailed prototype validated by real user experiences. The course also includes a deep dive into different user research methods, including interviews, focus groups, surveys, participatory design, and diary studies._

- **PiTech Program: [Conscientious Tech Design Workshop](http://pitechethics.github.io)** (Summer 2025)  
   _Co-Instructor, supervised by [Prof. Helen Nissenbaum](https://tech.cornell.edu/people/helen-nissenbaum/)_  
  Co-designed and co-facilitated an 8-week ethics workshop for [Siegel PiTech](https://www.pi.tech.cornell.edu/pitech-phd-impact-fellowship) PhD Impact Fellows using the Values at Play framework. The workshop provides a participatory space to explore ethical dimensions of public interest technology through discovery, implementation, and verification techniques applied to fellows' own projects. I operationalized the Values at Play framework into collaborative whiteboard activities and interactive assignments.

  _This workshop addresses the question: What does it mean to build and evaluate technology in the public interest? Sessions focus on identifying values embedded in systems, translating values into design features, and evaluating whether implementations successfully embody intended values._

- **CS 5436 / INFO 5303: [Privacy in the Digital Age](https://cs5436.github.io/)** (Fall 2024)  
   _Teaching Assistant for [Prof. Helen Nissenbaum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Helen_Nissenbaum) and [Prof. Vitaly Shmatikov](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/~shmat/)_  
  Graded assignments, created an in-class participatory assignment on privacy policy evaluation, and taught a lecture on usable privacy and design manipulation.

  _This course introduces students to privacy technologies and surveys the current state of digital privacy from multiple perspectives, including technology, law, policy, ethics, economics, and surveillance._

- **INFO 5345 / CS 5424 / ECE 5413: Developing and Designing Interactive Devices** (Fall 2023, Fall 2025)  
  _Teaching Assistant for [Prof. Wendy Ju](https://tech.cornell.edu/people/wendy-ju/)_  
  Revised all lab scripts and class content in the [interactive lab repository](https://github.com/FAR-Lab/Interactive-Lab-Hub) for updated hardware and more advanced libraries, enhancing usability. Established class infrastructure and managed grading. In Fall 2025, building on insights from my research on GenAI in HCI education (Sandhaus et al., 2025), I developed [WendyTA](https://github.com/IRL-CT/Interactive-Lab-Hub/tree/Fall2025/WendyTA), an LLM-powered teaching assistant that supports students in their interactive device design projects while encouraging reflection and deep learning.

  _This course provides an introduction to the human-centered and technical workings behind interactive devices ranging from cell phones and video controllers to household appliances and smart cars. This is a hands-on, lab-based course. Topics include electronics prototyping, interface prototyping, sensors and actuators, microcontroller development, physical prototyping and user testing. For the final project, students will build a functional interactive device of their own design, using single-board Linux computers, embedded microcontrollers, and other electronics components._

### Cornell University

- **INFO 3450 / COMM 3450 / INFO 5355: User Experience & User Research** (Fall 2021)  
  _Teaching Assistant for [Prof. Gilly Leshed](https://leshed.infosci.cornell.edu/)_  
  Led in class activities. Oversaw grading activities.

  _This course focuses on user experience design (UX) and the life cycle of interface design from the user perspective. We will discuss key aspects of the human-centered design process: understanding, analyzing, and formalizing user needs, exploring possible design solutions to address user needs, creating prototypes to externalize design ideas, and evaluating the usability of these prototypes._

<!-- - **[Course Name]** (Term Year)
  *Role*
  Brief description of responsibilities and impact. -->

## Invited Talks

<!-- ## Selected Talks --  & Presentations -->

<!-- ### Conference Presentations

- **[Talk Title]** (Month Year)
  _Conference Name, Location_
  Brief description or key points. -->

<!-- ### Invited Talks -->

- **Bright Patterns: Towards Extra Ethical User Experience Design** (March 2024)  
   _Digital Life Initiative, Cornell Tech, USA_ · [📑 Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1HNU8c5veMYzNhvuhTO9g0KvuFStQ4ddr5ja7xKzAUBY/edit?usp=sharing)  
  Dark Patterns have received significant attention from the academic Human-Computer Interaction community since 2010, when Brignull launched darkpatterns.org and initially described them as "tricks used in websites and apps that make you do things that you didn't mean to." In this presentation, DLI Doctoral Fellow Hauke Sandhaus will introduce two ongoing projects: firstly, his definition of Bright Patterns as an antonym to Dark Patterns, and secondly, an empirical study examining how the evaluation standards of user experience designers do not necessarily guide them towards ethical design practices. [Read more >](https://www.dli.tech.cornell.edu/seminars/%22bright-patterns%3A-towards-extra-ethical-user-experience-design%22-%26-%22explorable-explainable-ai%3A-improving-ai-understanding-for-community-health-workers-in-india%22)

- **Conceptualizing Bright Patterns** (January 2024)  
   _Lorentz Workshop on Fair Patterns, Leiden University, Netherlands_ · [📑 Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1_RUTMhAYq6cJlihzO3ZZUnPn76EKJkpYOBbG0FRyWE0/edit?usp=sharing)  
  This workshop brings together legal, human-computer interaction and economic experts coming from academia, businesses and enforcement agencies. Dark patterns, or deceptive design, are present on an overwhelming majority of digital services: they do not only clutter the interfaces of websites and mobile applications, but they are also widespread in emerging technologies such as voice assistants that provide personalized recommendations. [Read more >](https://www.lorentzcenter.nl/fair-patterns-for-online-interfaces.html)

- **Towards Prototyping Driverless Vehicle Behaviors, City Design, and Policies Simultaneously** (October 2023)  
   _Smart Cities as Knowledge Commons, Villanova University Charles Widger School of Law, USA_ · [📑 Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1zOP5aSnHkJUmGMANGceYTDUmbuR60iRG/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=115041818286926436811&rtpof=true&sd=true)  
   This Governing Knowledge Commons (GKC) workshop, to be followed by a book collecting case studies focused on Smart Cities and knowledge commons, offers a strategic opportunity to advance knowledge on how cities should respond to the challenges presented by digital networked technologies. Emerging smart cities will require trusted governance and engaged citizens. Integrating surveillance, AI, automation and smart tech within basic infrastructure as well as public and private services and spaces raises a complex set of ethical, economic, political, social, and technological questions [Read more >](https://knowledge-commons.net/projects/smart-cities/)

<!-- ### Workshop Presentations

- **[Workshop Title]** (Month Year)
  _Event Name, Location_
  Brief description of the workshop and your role. -->
